README.md, before:

# Kubectl

![kubectl logo](./images/kubectl-logo-medium.png)

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/kubernetes/kubectl.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/kubernetes/kubectl) [![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/k8s.io/kubectl?status.svg)](https://godoc.org/k8s.io/kubectl)

The `k8s.io/kubectl` repo is used to track issues for the kubectl cli distributed
with `k8s.io/kubernetes`. It also contains packages intended for use by client
programs. E.g. these packages are vendored into `k8s.io/kubernetes` for use in
the [kubectl](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/tree/master/cmd/kubectl)
cli client. That client will eventually move here too.

## Contribution Requirements

- Full unit-test coverage.

- Go tools compliant (`go get`, `go test`, etc.). It needs to be vendorable
  somewhere else.

- No dependence on `k8s.io/kubernetes`. Dependence on other repositories is fine.

- Code must be usefully [commented](https://go.dev/doc/effective_go#commentary).
  Not only for developers on the project, but also for external users of these packages.

- When reviewing PRs, you are encouraged to use Golang's [code review
  comments](https://github.com/golang/go/wiki/CodeReviewComments) page.

- Packages in this repository should aspire to implement sensible, small
  interfaces and import a limited set of dependencies.

## Community, discussion, contribution, and support

See [this document](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/sig-cli) for how to reach the maintainers of this project.

### Code of conduct

Participation in the Kubernetes community is governed by the [Kubernetes Code of Conduct](code-of-conduct.md).

Commit message:

docs: clarify that this is a staging repository and not for direct contributions
Signed-off-by: sAchin-680 <mrmister680@gmail.com>

Kubernetes-commit: 7c43e6d2fdbf88f8d92559dac3cabb23da2a2957

README.md, after:

> ⚠️ **This is a staging repository for Kubernetes**.  
> Contributions, including issues and pull requests, should be made to the main Kubernetes repository: [https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes).  
> This repository is not for direct contributions.

# Kubectl

![kubectl logo](./images/kubectl-logo-medium.png)

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/kubernetes/kubectl.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/kubernetes/kubectl) [![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/k8s.io/kubectl?status.svg)](https://godoc.org/k8s.io/kubectl)

The `k8s.io/kubectl` repo is used to track issues for the kubectl cli distributed
with `k8s.io/kubernetes`. It also contains packages intended for use by client
programs. E.g. these packages are vendored into `k8s.io/kubernetes` for use in
the [kubectl](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/tree/master/cmd/kubectl)
cli client. That client will eventually move here too.

## Contribution Requirements

- Full unit-test coverage.

- Go tools compliant (`go get`, `go test`, etc.). It needs to be vendorable
  somewhere else.

- No dependence on `k8s.io/kubernetes`. Dependence on other repositories is fine.

- Code must be usefully [commented](https://go.dev/doc/effective_go#commentary).
  Not only for developers on the project, but also for external users of these packages.

- When reviewing PRs, you are encouraged to use Golang's [code review
  comments](https://github.com/golang/go/wiki/CodeReviewComments) page.

- Packages in this repository should aspire to implement sensible, small
  interfaces and import a limited set of dependencies.

## Community, discussion, contribution, and support

See [this document](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/sig-cli) for how to reach the maintainers of this project.

### Code of conduct

Participation in the Kubernetes community is governed by the [Kubernetes Code of Conduct](code-of-conduct.md).
